A List of Java Machine Learning Tools or Libraries
==================================================

1. [__Weka__](https://www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/ml/weka/) is a collection of machine learning algorithms for data mining tasks. It contains tools for data preparation, classification, regression, clustering, association rules mining, and visualization. The algorithms can either be applied directly to a dataset or called from your own Java code. Weka provides 2 types of user interfaces: Java Swing and Command Line.
2. [__Massive Online Analysis (MOA)__](https://moa.cms.waikato.ac.nz/) is a popular open source framework for data stream mining, with a very active growing community (blog). It includes a collection of machine learning algorithms (classification, regression, clustering, outlier detection, concept drift detection and recommender systems) and tools for evaluation. Related to the WEKA project, MOA is also written in Java, while scaling to more demanding problems. MOA performs BIG DATA stream mining in real time, and large scale machine learning. MOA can be extended with new mining algorithms, and new stream generators or evaluation measures.
The goal of MOA is a benchmark framework for running experiments in the data stream mining context by proving: storable settings for data streams (real and synthetic) for repeatable experiments; a set of existing algorithms and measures form the literature for comparison; and an easily extendable framework for new streams, algorithms and evaluation methods.
3. [__Deeplearning4j__](https://deeplearning4j.org/) is an open-source, distributed, deep learning library for the JVM. It is written in Java and is compatible with any JVM language, such as Scala, Clojure or Kotlin. Deeplearning4j takes advantage of the latest distributed computing frameworks including Apache Spark and Hadoop to accelerate training. On multi-GPUs, it is equal to Caffe in performance.
Its Eclipse Deeplearning4j is the first commercial-grade, open-source, distributed deep-learning library written for Java and Scala. Integrated with Hadoop and Apache Spark, DL4J brings AI to business environments for use on distributed GPUs and CPUs. 
4. [__MALLET__](http://mallet.cs.umass.edu/) is a Java-based package for statistical natural language processing, document classification, clustering, topic modeling, information extraction, and other machine learning applications to text.
MALLET includes sophisticated tools for document classification: efficient routines for converting text to "features", a wide variety of algorithms (including Naïve Bayes, Maximum Entropy, and Decision Trees), and code for evaluating classifier performance using several commonly used metrics.
MALLET also includes tools for sequence tagging for applications such as named-entity extraction from text. Algorithms include Hidden Markov Models, Maximum Entropy Markov Models, and Conditional Random Fields.
The MALLET topic modeling toolkit contains efficient, sampling-based implementations of Latent Dirichlet Allocation, Pachinko Allocation, and Hierarchical LDA.
5. [__Environment for Developing KDD-Applications Supported by Index-Structures (ELKI)__](https://elki-project.github.io/) is an open source (AGPLv3) data mining software written in Java. The focus of ELKI is research in algorithms, with an emphasis on unsupervised methods in cluster analysis and outlier detection. In order to achieve high performance and scalability, ELKI offers data index structures such as the R*-tree that can provide major performance gains. ELKI is designed to be easy to extend for researchers and students in this domain, and welcomes contributions of additional methods. ELKI aims at providing a large collection of highly parameterizable algorithms, in order to allow easy and fair evaluation and benchmarking of algorithms.
6. [__Rapid Miner__](https://rapidminer.com/) is a data science software platform that provides an integrated environment for data preparation, machine learning, deep learning, text ming and predictive analytics.
7. [__Apache SAMOA (Scalable Advanced Massive Online Analysis)__](http://samoa.incubator.apache.org/) is a distributed streaming machine learning (ML) framework that contains a programing abstraction for distributed streaming ML algorithms.
Apache SAMOA enables development of new ML algorithms without directly dealing with the complexity of underlying distributed stream processing engines (DSPEe, such as Apache Storm, Apache Flink, and Apache Samza). Apache SAMOA users can develop distributed streaming ML algorithms once and execute them on multiple DSPEs.
8. [__MLlib (Spark)__](http://spark.apache.org/mllib/) is Apache Spark's scalable machine learning library. It fits into Spark's APIs and interoperates with NumPy in Python (as of Spark 0.9) and R libraries (as of Spark 1.5). Any Hadoop data source (e.g. HDFS, HBase, or local files) can by used to make it easy to plug into Hadoop workflows.
9. [__JSAT (Java Statistical Analysis Tool)__](https://github.com/EdwardRaff/JSAT) is a library for quickly getting started with Machine Learning problems. It has no external dependencies, and is pure Java.
10. [__Java-ML__](http://java-ml.sourceforge.net/) is a Java API with a collection of machine learning algorithms. It provides common interface for each type of algorithms.
11. [__H2O__](https://github.com/h2oai/h2o-3) is an in-memory platform for distributed, scalable machine learning. H2O uses familiar interfaces like R, Python, Scala, Java, JSON and the Flow notebook/web interface, and works seamlessly with big data technologies like Hadoop and Spark. H2O provides implementations of many popular algorithms such as GBM, Random Forest, Deep Neural Networks, Word2Vec and Stacked Ensembles. H2O is extensible so that developers can add data transformations and custom algorithms of their choice and access them through all of those clients.
12. [__RankLib__](https://sourceforge.net/p/lemur/wiki/RankLib/) is a library of learning to rank algorithms. Currently eight popular algorithms have been implemented: MART (Multiple Additive Regression Trees, a.k.a. Gradient boosted regression tree); RankNet; RankBoost; AdaRank; Coordinate Ascent; LambdaMART; ListNet; Random Forests.
13. [__MEKA__](http://waikato.github.io/meka/) provides an open source implementation of methods for multi-label learning and evaluation. In multi-label classification, we want to predict multiple output variables for each input instance. This different from the 'standard' case (binary, or multi-class classification) which involves only a single target variable. MEKA is based on the WEKA Machine Learning Toolkit; it includes dozens of multi-label methods from the scientific literature, as well as a wrapper to the related MULAN framework.
14. [__Advanced Data mining And Machine learning System (ADAMS)__](https://adams.cms.waikato.ac.nz/) is a flexible workflow engine aimed at quickly building and maintaining data-driven, reactive workflows, easily integrated into business processes.
15. [__Encog__](https://www.heatonresearch.com/encog/) is a pure-Java/C# machine learning framework. Encog supports a variety of advanced algorithms, as well as support classes to normalize and process data. Machine learning algorithms such as Support Vector Machines, Neural Networks, Bayesian Networks, Hidden Markov Models, Genetic Programming and Genetic Algorithms are supported. Most Encog training algorithms are multi-threaded and scale well to multicore hardware.
16. [__Datumbox Machine Learning Framework__](http://www.datumbox.com/) is an open-source framework written in Java which allows the rapid development of Machine Learning and Statistical applications. The main focus of the framework is to include a large number of machine learning algorithms & statistical tests and be able to handle large sized datasets. The code of the Machine Learning Framework can be found on [Github](https://github.com/datumbox/datumbox-framework).
The Framework currently supports performing multiple Parametric & non-parametric Statistical tests, calculating descriptive statistics on censored & uncensored data, performing ANOVA, Cluster Analysis, Dimension Reduction, Regression Analysis, Timeseries Analysis, Sampling and calculation of probabilities from the most common discrete and continues Distributions. In addition it provides several implemented algorithms including Max Entropy, Naïve Bayes, SVM, Bootstrap Aggregating, Adaboost, Kmeans, Hierarchical Clustering, Dirichlet Process Mixture Models, Softmax Regression, Ordinal Regression, Linear Regression, Stepwise Regression, PCA and several other techniques that can be used for feature selection, ensemble learning, linear programming solving and recommender systems.
17. [__Apache Mahout__](http://mahout.apache.org/) is a distributed linear algebra framework and mathematically expressive Scala DSL designed to let mathematicians, statisticians, and data scientists quickly implement their own algorithms. Apache Spark is the recommended out-of-the-box distributed back-end, or can be extended to other distributed backends.
18. [__Neuroph__](http://neuroph.sourceforge.net/) is lightweight Java neural network framework to develop common neural network architectures. It contains well designed, open source Java library with small number of basic classes which correspond to basic NN concepts. Also has nice GUI neural network editor to quickly create Java neural network components.
19. [__Oryx 2__](http://oryx.io/) is a realization of the lambda architecture built on Apache Spark and Apache Kafka, but with specialization for real-time large scale machine learning. It is a framework for building applications, but also includes packaged, end-to-end applications for collaborative filtering, classification, regression and clustering.
20. [__Stanford Classifer__](https://nlp.stanford.edu/software/classifier.shtml) is a machine learning tool that will take data items and place them into one of k classes. A probabilistic classifier, like this one, can also give a probability distribution over the class assignment for a data item. This software is a Java implementation of a maximum entropy classifier.

